README.md, before:

# WB_AD7794
Arduino Library for the Analog Devices AD7794 24bit ADC

This is a fork of the [NHBSystems/NHB_AD7794](https://github.com/NHBSystems/NHB_AD7794) library. I have also changed to an MIT license.

The goal of this fork is to allow releasing the SPI bus while the ADC is converting, so other SPI devices can be used between "start conversion" and "read result". Use `startConversion()` and `awaitConversionAndReadRaw()` for this pattern.

This library has been tested with ATMEGA328, ATMEGA32u4, SAMD21, Teensy 3.2, and Esp8266* (The Esp8266 has goofy SPI and requires a some workarounds).  
  
Basic API  
--------


### Constructor
```c
AD7794(uint8_t csPin, uint32_t spiFrequency, double refVoltage);
```
|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*csPin* | Chip Select pin |
|*spiFrequency*|SPI bus frequency to use|
|*refVoltage*  |Reference voltage. Currently all WB boards use a 2.5V       reference, however if you are using the raw chip, you should set this value to whatever you are using. If set to **1.17** or **AD7794_INTERNAL_REF_V** the internal 1.17 volt reference will be selected.|

--------------------------

### Filter Update Rate
The update rate is set for all channels. This setting determines the output data rate and filtering (noise rejection).
```c
    void setUpdateRate(double rate);
```
|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*rate* | Update rate in Hz. There are only 15 valid settings, but any value entered will be mapped to the next closest valid option. The following table shows a subset of valid settings. Refer to the data sheet for the full list, however these are the only ones I ever use. 

|Freq (Hz)| Settling time (ms) | Noise Rejection |
| ------- | ------------------ | --------------- |
|  470    | 4                  | ---             |
|  19.6   | 101                | 90 dB (60 Hz only)     |
|  16.7   | 120                | 65 dB (50 Hz and 60 Hz)|
|  10     | 200                | 69 dB (50 Hz and 60 Hz)|

-------------------------------

### Channel Settings
The basic methods for setting up the individual channels are:
```c
    void setBipolar(uint8_t ch, bool isBipolar);
    void setGain(uint8_t ch, uint8_t gain);
    void setEnabled(uint8_t ch, bool enabled);
```
They each share the basic signature of `function(Channel, setting)` so I have grouped the discriptions below.

|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*ch* | The AIN channel to act on |
|*isBipolar*| Sets whether the channel is configured as bipolar or unipolar. Note: Bipolar is centered arround the middle of the of the input range. It does not mean you can read voltages below VSS|
|*gain*  |Sets the gain for the given channel. Acceptable values are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128 |
|*enabled*| enable/disable the channel|

-------------------------

### Getting Readings
There are a few different methods to get readings from the ADC.
```c
uint32_t getReadingRaw(uint8_t ch);
```
`getReadingRaw(chan)` Returns the raw ADC counts for the given channel 

```c 
float read(uint8_t ch);
```
`read(chan)` Returns a reading for the given channel
```c

void read(float *buf, uint8_t bufSize);
```
`read(buffer,size)` Is just for convenience and can be used to read a nuber of channels at once, though they must start at 0 and be sequential. (e.g. 0 trough 3, or 0 trough 5). 

#### Reading Temperature
Also, the onboard temperature sensor can be read by reading channel 6. Note, it may be off by a couple of degrees and need an offset correction applied. This is shown in the thermocouple example sketch.
```c
float tempC = read(6); //Returns temperature in Celsius, may need offset corection
```

------------------------

Example
-----------
```c
#include "WB_AD7794.h"

//Pin defines, change for your setup
#define AD7794_CS  10  
#define EX_EN_PIN  9  
#define OTHER_SPI_CS  8

AD7794 adc(AD7794_CS, 1000000, 2.50);
uint32_t rawReading = 0;

void setup() {
  
    Serial.begin(115200);

    while(!Serial); // Wait for serial on native USB boards
    
    // WB boards use a pin to control excitation voltage, set 
    // it to output, and write LOW to turn on the excitation
    pinMode(EX_EN_PIN, OUTPUT); 
    digitalWrite(EX_EN_PIN,LOW);  //low  = 2.5 Vex ON
    pinMode(OTHER_SPI_CS, OUTPUT);
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, HIGH);

    adc.begin();
  
    adc.setUpdateRate(470); //Fastest setting, no filtering
    adc.setBipolar(0,false); //Simple unipolar example
    adc.setGain(0, 1);
    adc.setEnabled(0,true);
}

void loop() {

    //Start a conversion on channel 0 and release the SPI bus immediately.
    adc.startConversion(0);

    //Do something with another SPI device while the ADC is converting.
    SPI.beginTransaction(SPISettings(1000000, MSBFIRST, SPI_MODE0));
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, LOW);
    SPI.transfer(0xAA);
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, HIGH);
    SPI.endTransaction();

    //Now wait for the ADC and read the raw result.
    rawReading = adc.awaitConversionAndReadRaw();

    //Dump voltage readings out to serial port.
    float volts = (rawReading * 2.5f) / (AD7794_ADC_MAX_UP * 1.0f);
    Serial.println(volts, 6);

    delay(10); //wait a bit
}
```

Commit message:

chore: update copyright information and author details in license and source files

README.md, after:

# WB_AD7794
Arduino Library for the Analog Devices AD7794 24bit ADC

This library was created as part of a project to build an instrument for measuring the Willy Brandt factor.

This is a fork of the [NHBSystems/NHB_AD7794](https://github.com/NHBSystems/NHB_AD7794) library.

The goal of this fork is to allow releasing the SPI bus while the ADC is converting, so other SPI devices can be used between "start conversion" and "read result". Use `startConversion()` and `awaitConversionAndReadRaw()` for this pattern.

This library has been tested with ATMEGA328, ATMEGA32u4, SAMD21, Teensy 3.2, and Esp8266* (The Esp8266 has goofy SPI and requires a some workarounds).  
  
Basic API  
--------


### Constructor
```c
AD7794(uint8_t csPin, uint32_t spiFrequency, double refVoltage);
```
|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*csPin* | Chip Select pin |
|*spiFrequency*|SPI bus frequency to use|
|*refVoltage*  |Reference voltage. Currently all WB boards use a 2.5V       reference, however if you are using the raw chip, you should set this value to whatever you are using. If set to **1.17** or **AD7794_INTERNAL_REF_V** the internal 1.17 volt reference will be selected.|

--------------------------

### Filter Update Rate
The update rate is set for all channels. This setting determines the output data rate and filtering (noise rejection).
```c
    void setUpdateRate(double rate);
```
|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*rate* | Update rate in Hz. There are only 15 valid settings, but any value entered will be mapped to the next closest valid option. The following table shows a subset of valid settings. Refer to the data sheet for the full list, however these are the only ones I ever use. 

|Freq (Hz)| Settling time (ms) | Noise Rejection |
| ------- | ------------------ | --------------- |
|  470    | 4                  | ---             |
|  19.6   | 101                | 90 dB (60 Hz only)     |
|  16.7   | 120                | 65 dB (50 Hz and 60 Hz)|
|  10     | 200                | 69 dB (50 Hz and 60 Hz)|

-------------------------------

### Channel Settings
The basic methods for setting up the individual channels are:
```c
    void setBipolar(uint8_t ch, bool isBipolar);
    void setGain(uint8_t ch, uint8_t gain);
    void setEnabled(uint8_t ch, bool enabled);
```
They each share the basic signature of `function(Channel, setting)` so I have grouped the discriptions below.

|Arg|Description|
| ------ | --------------- |
|*ch* | The AIN channel to act on |
|*isBipolar*| Sets whether the channel is configured as bipolar or unipolar. Note: Bipolar is centered arround the middle of the of the input range. It does not mean you can read voltages below VSS|
|*gain*  |Sets the gain for the given channel. Acceptable values are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128 |
|*enabled*| enable/disable the channel|

-------------------------

### Getting Readings
There are a few different methods to get readings from the ADC.
```c
uint32_t getReadingRaw(uint8_t ch);
```
`getReadingRaw(chan)` Returns the raw ADC counts for the given channel 

```c 
float read(uint8_t ch);
```
`read(chan)` Returns a reading for the given channel
```c

void read(float *buf, uint8_t bufSize);
```
`read(buffer,size)` Is just for convenience and can be used to read a nuber of channels at once, though they must start at 0 and be sequential. (e.g. 0 trough 3, or 0 trough 5). 

#### Reading Temperature
Also, the onboard temperature sensor can be read by reading channel 6. Note, it may be off by a couple of degrees and need an offset correction applied. This is shown in the thermocouple example sketch.
```c
float tempC = read(6); //Returns temperature in Celsius, may need offset corection
```

------------------------

Example
-----------
```c
#include "WB_AD7794.h"

//Pin defines, change for your setup
#define AD7794_CS  10  
#define EX_EN_PIN  9  
#define OTHER_SPI_CS  8

AD7794 adc(AD7794_CS, 1000000, 2.50);
uint32_t rawReading = 0;

void setup() {
  
    Serial.begin(115200);

    while(!Serial); // Wait for serial on native USB boards
    
    // WB boards use a pin to control excitation voltage, set 
    // it to output, and write LOW to turn on the excitation
    pinMode(EX_EN_PIN, OUTPUT); 
    digitalWrite(EX_EN_PIN,LOW);  //low  = 2.5 Vex ON
    pinMode(OTHER_SPI_CS, OUTPUT);
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, HIGH);

    adc.begin();
  
    adc.setUpdateRate(470); //Fastest setting, no filtering
    adc.setBipolar(0,false); //Simple unipolar example
    adc.setGain(0, 1);
    adc.setEnabled(0,true);
}

void loop() {

    //Start a conversion on channel 0 and release the SPI bus immediately.
    adc.startConversion(0);

    //Do something with another SPI device while the ADC is converting.
    SPI.beginTransaction(SPISettings(1000000, MSBFIRST, SPI_MODE0));
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, LOW);
    SPI.transfer(0xAA);
    digitalWrite(OTHER_SPI_CS, HIGH);
    SPI.endTransaction();

    //Now wait for the ADC and read the raw result.
    rawReading = adc.awaitConversionAndReadRaw();

    //Dump voltage readings out to serial port.
    float volts = (rawReading * 2.5f) / (AD7794_ADC_MAX_UP * 1.0f);
    Serial.println(volts, 6);

    delay(10); //wait a bit
}
```
